Add docs for `PaintRenderingContext2D` (#36830)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/paintrenderingcontext2d/index.md

---
title: PaintRenderingContext2D
slug: Web/API/PaintRenderingContext2D
page-type: web-api-interface
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.PaintRenderingContext2D
---

{{APIRef("CSS Painting API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The **`PaintRenderingContext2D`** interface of the [CSS Painting API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSS_Painting_API) is a rendering context for drawing to the bitmap for the [CSS Painting API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSS_Painting_API). It implements a subset of the {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D")}} API.

Author: ```suggestion
The **`PaintRenderingContext2D`** interface of the [CSS Painting API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSS_Painting_API) is the rendering context for drawing to the bitmap for the [CSS Painting API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSS_Painting_API). It implements a subset of the {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D")}} API.
```

The interface is only available in {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D", "paint worklet global scope", "", 1)}}.

## Instance properties and methods

_All PaintRenderingContext2D's properties and methods have the same usage as in `CanvasRenderingContext2D`_

### Context

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.isContextLost()")}}
  - : Returns `true` if the rendering context was lost.

> ### State

Author: PaintRenderingContext2D won't support this method, as it won't be context lost

> ### State

Author: see https://github.com/chromium/chromium/blob/main/third_party/blink/renderer/modules/canvas/canvas2d/base_rendering_context_2d.idl for the full list

### Shadows

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.shadowBlur")}}
  - : Specifies the blurring effect. Default: `0`.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.shadowColor")}}
  - : Color of the shadow. Default: fully-transparent black.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.shadowOffsetX")}}
  - : Horizontal distance the shadow will be offset. Default: `0`.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.shadowOffsetY")}}
  - : Vertical distance the shadow will be offset. Default: `0`.

### Drawing rectangles

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.clearRect()")}}
  - : Sets all pixels in the rectangle defined by starting point _(x, y)_ and size _(width, height)_ to transparent black, erasing any previously drawn content.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.fillRect()")}}
  - : Draws a filled rectangle at _(x, y)_ position whose size is determined by _width_ and _height_.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.strokeRect()")}}
  - : Paints a rectangle which has a starting point at _(x, y)_ and has a _w_ width and an _h_ height onto the canvas, using the current stroke style.

### Drawing paths

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.beginPath()")}}

>   - : Starts a new path by emptying the list of sub-paths. Call this method when you want to create a new path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Starts a new path, emptying the list of sub-paths. Call this method when you want to create a new path.
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.fill()")}}

>   - : Fills the current sub-paths with the current fill style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Fills the sub-paths of the current path with the current fill style.
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.stroke()")}}

>   - : Strokes the current sub-paths with the current stroke style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Strokes the sub-paths of the current path with the current stroke style.
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.clip()")}}

>   - : Creates a clipping path from the current sub-paths. Everything drawn after `clip()` is called appears inside the clipping path only. For an example, see [Clipping paths](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API/Tutorial/Compositing) in the Canvas tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Turns the current or given path into the current clipping region, using the given fill rule to determine which points are in the path. Subsequent path modifications will appear inside the clipping path only.
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.isPointInPath()")}}

>   - : Reports whether or not the specified point is contained in the current path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A boolean whose value is `true` if the specified point is contained in the current or specified path.
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.isPointInStroke()")}}

>   - : Reports whether or not the specified point is inside the area contained by the stroking of a path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A boolean whose value is `true` if the point is inside the area contained by the stroking of a path
```

### Drawing images

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.drawImage()")}}

>   - : Draws the specified image. This method is available in multiple formats, providing a great deal of flexibility in its use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Draws the given image or specified portion thereof, optionally at a specified size and position.
```

### Line styles

> The following methods and properties control how lines are drawn.

Reviewer: We should either include a descriptive line in all sections or none.

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.lineWidth")}}

>   - : Width of lines. Default `1.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A number specifying the line width, in coordinate space units.
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.lineCap")}}
  - : Type of endings on the end of lines. Possible values: `butt` (default), `round`, `square`.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.lineJoin")}}
  - : Defines the type of corners where two lines meet. Possible values: `round`, `bevel`, `miter` (default).
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.miterLimit")}}

>   - : Miter limit ratio. Default `10`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A number specifying the miter limit ratio, in coordinate space units. Default `10`.
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.getLineDash()")}}

>   - : Returns the current line dash pattern array containing an even number of non-negative numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Returns the current line dash pattern as an [`Array`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) of numbers that specify the lengths of the alternative lines and gaps in coordinate space units.
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.setLineDash()")}}

>   - : Sets the current line dash pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Sets the list of line and dash distances as the current line dash pattern (as used when stroking).
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.lineDashOffset")}}
  - : Specifies where to start a dash array on a line.

### Paths

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.closePath()")}}

>   - : Causes the point of the pen to move back to the start of the current sub-path. It tries to draw a straight line from the current point to the start. If the shape has already been closed or has only one point, this function does nothing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Marks the current subpath as closed, drawing a straight line from the current point to the start, and starts a new subpath with a point the same as the start and end of the newly closed subpath. If the shape has already been closed or has only one point, this function does nothing.
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.getTransform()")}}
  - : Retrieves the current transformation matrix being applied to the context as a {{domxref("DOMMatrix")}}.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.rotate()")}}
  - : Adds a rotation to the transformation matrix. The angle argument represents a clockwise rotation angle and is expressed in radians.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.scale()")}}
  - : Adds a scaling transformation to the canvas units by x horizontally and by y vertically.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.translate()")}}
  - : Adds a translation transformation by moving the canvas and its origin x horizontally and y vertically on the grid.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.transform()")}}
  - : Multiplies the current transformation matrix with the matrix described by its arguments.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.setTransform()")}}
  - : Resets the current transform to the identity matrix, and then invokes the `transform()` method with the same arguments.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.resetTransform()")}}
  - : Resets the current transform by the identity matrix.

### Compositing

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.globalAlpha")}}

>   - : Alpha value that is applied to shapes and images before they are composited onto the canvas. Default `1.0` (opaque).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Alpha value that is applied to shapes and images before they are composited onto the canvas.
```

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.isPointInPath()")}}
  - : A boolean whose value is `true` if the specified point is contained in the current or specified path.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.isPointInStroke()")}}
  - : A boolean whose value is `true` if the point is inside the area contained by the stroking of a path

### Drawing images

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.drawImage()")}}
  - : Draws the given image or specified portion thereof, optionally at a specified size and position.

### Line styles

- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.lineWidth")}}
  - : A number specifying the line width, in coordinate space units.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.lineCap")}}
  - : Type of endings on the end of lines. Possible values: `butt` (default), `round`, `square`.
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.lineJoin")}}
  - : Defines the type of corners where two lines meet. Possible values: `round`, `bevel`, `miter` (default).
- {{domxref("CanvasRenderingContext2D.miterLimit")}}

>   - : A number specifying the miter limit ratio, in coordinate space units. Default `10`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A number specifying the miter limit ratio, in coordinate space units.
```
